>> Mike North: The last thing we did was,
we built a stateless functional
React component using TypeScript.
And the benefit we saw that
TypeScript brought to the party
was that we were able to use
an interface to describe
the props object that this
component was looking to receive.
And we saw that there were a bunch of
things where using regular JavaScript,
we would get no warnings about,
we just rely on our testing or
whatever other assurances we have to catch
that kind of problem before we shipped it.
Whereas TypeScript was bringing
those errors up to compile time,
where we saw that is was unhappy with
us until we provided it the data that
it had stated was required by way
that interface for the prop's object.
So where we're going with this is we're
gonna talk about a stateful component.
So stateful components,
you'll recognize these as usually,
classes, Java Script or
TypeScript classes.
And you'll see that in this situation,
we've got props.
So we bring in a prop of name, but this
component also has a time state, right?
And when the component is mounted,
when the components is inserted into
the HTML, it generates a new date value.
And it sets it's state as like,
the time property on that state object
is set to whatever that data is.
And now when we're rendering this
component, we use something from props and
we use something from state.
So we render the isostring
from that data object and
we render the name from the prop subject.
You'll note that the React component
type definition here, we're not using
react.sfc anymore because that is just for
stateless functional components.
Now we're using this React
component type definition and
we pass in two generic
type parameters there.
The first one is props and
the second one is state.
And you see here,
like a very common pattern here is to
of course begin both interfaces
with the letter I for interface so,
we that that's not a class for
working with.
That is just a shape of some
data not an implementation.
And then adding props and
state to these interfaces themselves, so
there's no confusion whatsoever
in terms of which is which.
I love this pattern because at least
when I was first learning React,
I would lose track of what data lives
on props and what data lives on state.
When you're working in
the internals of this component,
sometimes it's not immediately
obvious what should be
passed to you from the outside versus
what is your own private data, right?
And now in this case, because there is
some structure around these two objects,
it saves us from things like misspellings.
Or it points out anytime
we've reached to props or
when we should have reached to state and
vice-versa, because it will say, look,
this property is not available there.
For that reason I also try to make sure
that when I design React components with
TypeScript, I tend to wanna
have these two interfaces for
props and
state overlap as little as possible.
So that you don't end up in a situation
where they both have name on them.
If they both had a name property on each
of those interfaces you start to lose some
of that clarity between props and state.
Whereas if you have none intersecting
shapes with completely different property
names, it becomes really nice and you can
avoid a lot of potential confusion there.
Especially if you're dealing with
highly complex React components,
where you weren't the original author,
you don't have all of the context
of how this was built.
Really, really nice to have up
front a definition of these
are the things that belong to my state,
and this is for the props.
With that, let's look a little deeper
into our little demo, the clock demo.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Could you just
maybe elaborate a little
bit on how
>> Speaker 2: to implement
TypeScript into a project?
Like how to get it in to Webpack and Vega
kind of the best practices in that way?
>> Mike North: Sure, absolutely.
Let me just finish this little bit up,
and I'll jump right into that topic.
So this component here is a clock,
it has a color that
is passed in from the outside world and
it has a time, that's the current date.
And you can see that when the components
mounts at every 20 milliseconds,
it will basically begin pulling every
20 milliseconds in order to refresh its
time, right?
So when we call this .tick, it's going
to just set a new state down here.
We see we've made that private,
no one else can use that function.
Another great thing to get added to
React components like no one outside of
this components definition
can refer to take here.
And in fact if you try to overwrite
this property, you'd get a complaint
from TypeScript saying, there's something
there and you're not allowed to access it.
So, in this situation you're gonna
end up with some very clear idea of
what's available there versus
what's available here,
color, that's the only thing.
All right, so that states for components.
Now, answer your question
about mixing JavaScript and
TypeScript together in an asset pipeline,
right?
How do you end up with like modern
JavaScript and TypeScript side by side.
So, we looked at yesterday
how classes were
implemented differently in
Babble versus in TypeScript.
Mainly that Babble has a central
definition of a function called create
class, and it leans heavily on
that in order to define new types.
TypeScript does not have that, right?
It doesn't have this
sense of a polyfill that
can be leveraged multiple times across
various things, I don't believe it does.
In any sense, in this specific case,
it certainly does not.
The consequence is, if you mix TypeScript,
like classes that were generated by
the TypeScript compiler and
classes that were generated by Babble.
You can end up with some issues in
terms of inheritance chains and
supers working the way
you'd expect them to work.
So my advice here is to basically have,
if you're using TypeScript and Babble side
by side which is not only possible, but
they work really, really nicely together.
The idea is you want TypeScript
to do as little work as possible.
Just get it out of the TypesSript world
and into as modern a version of JavaScript
as you possibly can, and then let Babble
take it the rest of the way from there.
Here's how that would look.
So the file that drives this in the root
of our project is this tsconfig.json,
and this is where we also have
the rest of our compiler options.
So, we can see that this target
property lets us specify the ecmascript
target version, and
permitted values are all of those things.
One of the nice things that Visual Studio
code adds to this developer
experience, is there's even a schema for
the way this JSON object is structured.
So this is not a plugin
I'm about to show you,
it's the fact there's some site,
I think it's like JSONschemas.org.
>> Mike North: Yep.
>> Mike North: So
json-schema.org is a place where you can
see there are many specifications for
package JSON, and various other things.
>> Mike North: Let me make sure that
I am looking at the right thing.
>> Mike North: Let me do a quick Google.
>> Mike North: Yep, it is correct.
All right, so for example if we were
to look at Babble RC is JSON schema.
>> Mike North: It looks like this.
So we get nice auto-complete
right in our editor here.
And that's what telling us that
those are the valid options here.
So we would basically say we want
TypeScript to compile us ES2017, meaning
it's gonna do things like leaving those
JavaScript classes completely in tact.
It'll leave them intact, it's just
gonna do the type definition stuff.
It won't even mess with
the generator functions.
It'll let Babble handle
that kind of thing.
It'll only take away very
TypeScript specific things and
leave us with almost no
advanced modern JavaScript,
having been boiled down into simpler
stuff that older browsers can understand.
And then you would let Babbel
take everything from that point
the rest of the way.
The benefit being now that
all of your JavaScript and
all of your TypeScript in terms of
classes, and generator functions, and
things like that,
they were all processed by the same tool.
And they're all going to work together
just as if you had been using
Babble alone without TypeScript,
does that make sense?
>> Speaker 2: Yep, thank you.
>> Mike North: All right.
>> Mike North: And by the way you would
also do this, you would say I want to
generate ES 6 modules instead
of generating common JS modules.
We're currently building
common JS modules just so that
Node and our browser-base code can
kinda share that one API keys file.